Author: Vlad Skvortsov <vss@aboutecho.com>, Echo
Title: Introduce 'Page Load' Mesage Type

MOTIVATION
==========

Backplane operates in a web environment where a load (or reload) of a page
is a significant event. Widgets can naturally detect this, yet their
server-sides can not (unless their corresponding widgets make an HTTP request
communicating the event; which is inefficient â€” a single reload might
trigger a number of requests duplicate in their nature).

Making information on page loads/reloads available to Backplane applications
enables them to synchronize accordingly which might be helpful in different
application scenarios.

BACKGROUND
==========

One application of this feature is the extension of Identity Scenario where
a state is broadcast to all participants on page load.

PROPOSAL
========

I propose to introduce a new core message type, 'core/pageload' (better name
to be determined). This message MUST be sent by a Backplane server in
either of the following two cases:

1. A new Backplane channel has been allocated as a result of an anonymous
client hitting the "GET /token" API method.

2. A page associated with an existing Backplane channel gets reloaded. This
can be detected on the client-side when the Javascript Backplane library
gets initialized and notices there is an access token already stored in a
cookie.

Since a Backplane message can only be sent from a server-side, in the second
case the Javascript library has to communicate to the server that a page
reload is detected.

It is proposed that the Javascript library always issues a "GET /token"
request to the server upon its initialization. In case there is an access
token stored in a cookie, the token is included into the request as well,
e.g.:

GET /token?access_token=465203f03680f59b7ddd5e1e5d851461&callback=cb

The server-side logic for handling "GET /token" requests is the following:

1. If 'access_token' parameter is omitted, create a new channel and issue a
newly generated token. Post 'core/pageload' message to the newly created
channel.

2. If the access token is supplied and is invalid (expired or not known),
proceed as in case 1.

3. If the access token is supplied and valid, post 'core/pageload' message
to the corresponding channel.

IMPLEMENTATION
==============

Action items to implement the proposal:


DISCUSSION
==========

REFERENCES
==========
